# Python scripting interface

In PyCAC, the Python scripting interface is a Python wrapper module for CAC's underlying Fortran 2008 code, allowing handling of the program's input and output as well as links to some external visualization software. Written in Python 3.0 with f2py and contained in PyCAC.py, the Python module provides a robust user interface to facilitate parametric studies via CAC simulations without interacting with the Fortran code and to improve handling of input, output, and visualization options. In particular, the Python module consists of three components:

* input.py() for generation and manipulation of CAC simulation cells, as well as submitting jobs via job schedulers on high performance computing clusters, e.g., those on [NSF XSEDE](http://www.xsede.org). As mentioned [earlier](../chapter3/input.md), the PyCAC interface reads a `pycac.in` script to create the `cac.in` input script. More information of the `pycac.in` script will be added soon.

* output.py() for manipulation of CAC simulation output data. As mentioned [earlier](../chapter3/output.md), a CAC simulation outputs vtk files containing elemental, nodal and atomic information. It follows that the output.py() component reads the vtk files and interpolates all atoms inside the elements in the coarse-grained domain. These interpolated atoms, together with the real atoms in the atomistic domain (also read from the vtk files), are used to generate standard [LAMMPS dump](http://lammps.sandia.gov/doc/dump.html) files that can be visualized by atomistic model viewers and/or [read by LAMMPS](http://lammps.sandia.gov/doc/read_dump.html) directly to carry out equivalent fully-resolved atomistic simulations.

* visualization.py() for integrating some visualization software. The dump files and vtk files are visualized by [OVITO](../chapter6/ovito.md) and [ParaView](../chapter6/paraview.md), respectively.